# Getting Started
Start here to learn how to become a member of the HMC Open Source GitHub 
Organization.

What you need to do:
- Read the rules for this organization
- Do the onboarding quiz that will
  - confirm you're a student or alumni of the Claremont Colleges
  - do a comprehension check on rules, policies, and practices
 
Once you are a member of the organization:
- Try the lesson on git that is in this repo by 
[clicking here](https://hmc-open-source.github.io/getting-started) 

---

# Rules, Policies, and Practices

## The HMC Honor Code applies

Harvey Mudd College is an inclusive community of faculty, staff and students. 
Students entering the community are assumed to have an earnest purpose. Diligent 
pursuit of this purpose is enhanced by standards of conduct agreed upon by the 
community. These standards are:

1. Thoughtful respect for the rights of others;
2. Honesty and integrity in both academic and personal matters;
3. Responsible behavior both on and off campus;
4. Appropriate use of campus buildings and equipment, and;
5. Compliance with College regulations and policies

## What the Honor Code Means for this GitHub Organization
Any project shared in this organization should comply with the honor code. 
Some examples of what that looks like for each standard are below.

Examples (you may contribute to this section for git practice!):
1. Thoughtful respect for the rights of others
    - Observe PR etiquette and have discussions with respect
2. Honesty and integrity in both academic and personal matters
    - This includes avoiding the unauthorized distribution of course solutions 
    or exam materials.
    - We do not permit the storage or distribution of pirated software, malware, 
    or unlicensed intellectual property.
3. Responsible behavior both on and off campus
    - Similar to above points, but this may also extend to the public if your 
    repo is meant to be open source.
4. Appropriate use of campus buildings and equipment
    - This GitHub Organization is more of a "digital campus building". Please do 
    not host repos of content that is offensive or reflects poorly on the 
    school.
    - Do not store sensitive campus credentials (API keys, SSH keys, or server 
    passwords) within repos, as this compromises the security of college network 
    infrastructure.

## The use of AI
AI generated code can be used in this organization. The ideal practice is to 
always share when code is generated by AI and to keep a log of AI use. 
Approved/Recommended AI models are:
- Anthropic Claude (known for creating safe and aligned AI models)
- Google DeepMind (focuses on human-centered AI, rejecting the use of AI for 
weapons or surveillance)

## FERPA! THIS IS IMPORTANT
When using AI models or creating educational software, please remember that all 
educational information is protected under FERPA and that you should NOT be 
uploading or sharing educational information that you may have access to such as
- academic transcripts, grades, and GPA
- (personal student) class schedules and attendance records
- disciplinary records, special education records, and advising notes
- student health/medical records
- financial aid records

## Access Permissions

### General Member
The default permission as a member is "read" access. You'll be able to see every
repo, but you are not allowed to "write" to them. In order to join a repo, you
can

1. Contact the repo admin or,
2. Fork the repo, clone, and submit a PR. From there, you can discuss with the
admin that you would like to join. 

### Creating a repo -> Admin/Maintainer
If you create a repo and share your project in this organization, your 
default permission will be "admin". You are fully responsible for maintaining
your repo. 

## Organization Practices

### Public vs Private Repos
Public repos will be viewable to everyone, including those outside this 
organization. Choose this if you want your repo to be open-source. This is the
recommmended state if you want people to use your project.

Private repos will only be viewable to HMC Open Source Orgs.

### Repo Admin Autonomy
Repos that you create are yours to maintain. You can manage members, set
permissions, and manage PRs. 